# B2B Email Marketing Benchmarks and How to Use Them–Chad S. White

**Expert:** chad-white

**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ExAaxc0ee2c

**Collected:** 2026-07-09

## Transcript

We've talked a lot about external benchmarks. I want to talk about the four best ways I think that you should be using them. Uh the first is as guard rails. Again, these numbers are not nearly as specific as we make them look. Uh and so guardrails is a great way to use it. So for those benchmarks that are sort of positive or higher is better. So you know more clicks, more opens, um you want like if you're above like 2x of the benchmark, that's usually great. Uh and if you're like half of that benchmark, it's usually not so great. Um, and if you, uh, if you have negative benchmarks, uh, you know, like unsubscriber rates and bounce rates, like where you want them to be lower, uh, you really, it's sort of it's the inverse. So, you know, looking at a really good bounce rate that's roughly, you know, going to be less than half if you're, you know, if you're looking at open rates, trying to be better than twice the the number um, is good. And then then on the other end, these are also the numbers that you would want to be looking at again on a global basis. So we've already seen how the uh the industry metrics and the regional metrics are quite different. So whatever the most appropriate um you know benchmark is for you, these are some guide uh some some guide rails that you can kind of uh calculate to see if you're in between those and if you're uh if you're exceeding them uh that's something to kind of look into just to verify and if you're obviously if you're in the danger zone that's also something to sort of investigate. Um, so you know, I think that's a a good way of using them. Also, focusing on changes. Uh, so first change would be like a year-over-year change. That's a good thing to look at. So here are the numbers from uh 2023 on a global basis. Uh, so you can see that, you know, in 2024 the bounce rates were down uh 11.2% 2% that unique open rates were up uh 2.4%. Uh you know the unique click rates were up probably not a significant amount um but they were up and that unsubscribe rates uh were down which is good. Um so using those kinds of comparisons can uh can also be helpful because if you're varying from that a significant amount especially in the bad direction uh that's something you want to look into. [Music]
